# Programming as Conversation Part 2: Conclusion

In Programming as Conversation we taught you the basic units of expression:
_expressions_. With them you could make simple requests of Ruby and could
provide simple directives to Ruby. These were like learning simple requests for
food or water when you were learning to speak. You also got a little bit of
vocabulary: learned words like _variable_ and _data type_.

In Programming as Conversation Part 2, we've been teaching you to turn your
simple _expressions_ into more mature "sentences." Just as children don't
_start_ speaking in sentences by using "If...then" or "Although..." or "Neither
...nor" or "Either...or," we don't start learning to code with statements that
alter simple expressions. However, in this section, you've progressed
magnificently and are now able to "wrap" your _expressions_ in _statements_
that account for the complexity of what you need to tell Ruby.

In these sections, you developed empathy for your listener, Ruby, who reads
code in a specific top-down, left-right order (SEQUENCE) unless this flow is
interrupted by SELECTION or re-done by a REPETITION statement. You learned the
most common SELECTION statements: `if` or `case`. You also learned the most
common repetition statements: `while` or `loop`

If you think about what happened after you learned to write complete, and
occasionally complex sentences, you can see where Programming as Conversation
will go next. After you learned to write competent sentences (like Ruby
_expressions_) that could
function with complexity (like if you wrapped them in `if` or repetition),
you learned to write **paragraphs**.

A **paragraph** is a collection of sentences, aligned by a topic sentence and
bundled up or closed by a closing sentence. A **paragraph** can persuade or
offend, direct, or explain. You must now learn to write "code paragraphs." Code
paragraphs are called, depending on language, "functions," "procedures,"
"methods," or "subroutines."

Ruby calls bundles of statements that, together, accomplish a unit of work  or
process, ***methods***. In Programming as Conversation 3 we'll learn to take
our _expressions_ and _statements_ and bundle them up into _methods_.
